Without humans, crime becomes difficult to anticipate and identify on its own. Crime is an action that establishes an offense that can be prosecuted by the state and is punishable by law. Humans generate patterns which become data for crime analysts to sift through to determine whether a crime fits into known patterns and discover new patterns [1]. The study proposes a crime prediction model by analyzing and comparing four models: Random Forest, Naive Bayesian, XGBoost and Neural Network to predict the type of crime within a neighborhood. A Neural Network model will provide an artificial intelligence approach to predict similar data. We want to be able to create a model that surrounds four different crime cases, which are common assault, aggravated assault, larceny, and burglary cases. These cases are prevalent in the Baltimore area with a larger crime rate. Exploratory data analysis (EDA) [3] will be used to discover patterns, spot anomalies, test hypotheses, and check assumptions to understand the trends of the crime. The accuracies of Random Forest, XGBoost, Naive Bayes and Neural Network techniques are 88%, 90%, 99% and 27% and the proposed model is further evaluated for precision and recall matrices to determine which of them performs better based on the data used. The results will show that Naïve Bayesian has the best recall and accuracy score compared to the other models for predicting crime based on historical data. The analysis and prediction model will help government entities to utilize resources and anticipate a specific crime and its possible location.

